# Project Proposal

## Contributors:
Talia Bahar, Lauren Lindsey, Shanaya Nagendran, Maya Pegler-Gordon

## Description:
NiteLite will be a mobile application built using React Native to be compatible with multiple mobile OS’. NiteLite aims to provide vulnerable users with the safest route from point A to point B. This is similar to existing mapping applications, but this app will focus on routing users to the “safest routes.” Safe routes are defined by a number of factors such as foot traffic, crime rate, light, open establishments, and more. The use of existing mapping APIs and crime rate data will be implemented to find the safest routes. The end users will be anyone who travels by foot in an unknown or unsafe location. More specifically, this app will be designed for vulnerable groups such as women and children.

## Justification:
This project is a good fit for our team since members have prior knowledge in API integration, backend development, and React Native. All the members do not know React and not all of us have in-depth knowledge of the backend of large scale applications, so we will be able to learn from one another throughout this process. We have many ideas for additional features, so we will aim for a Minimum Viable Product and if time permits, we will implement additional features. Currently, ideas for other features include the ability to call the police or an emergency contact if the user feels unsafe, allow the user to report safe or unsafe paths (similar to Waze, where users can alert other users of suspicious activity in real time), and other resources to help users feel safe on their way to their destination. There are many APIs where we will be able to access global maps with street view and we are currently researching APIs that will indicate lighting or foot traffic during times where people feel most unsafe - at night. The ability to find a nearby gas station or police station should be fairly simple through integrating the Google Maps API. We find this project to be essential since we are all college-age women and have all experienced the dangers of walking home in either an unfamiliar neighborhood or at night. This app is especially useful to users who may be new to certain cities and do not have the prior knowledge of safe walking routes. After a brief period of market research, we discovered that this concept has been explored in projects prior, but there is no existing solution for the public to download. In addition, Google has also mentioned that they are looking into providing safer routes with Google Maps, thus proving the demand for this product.
